Look.
And you said they were
incompatible.
TUVOK:
You have confirmed
the genetic structure?
An entirely new species.
I'm gonna name it after you.
The Tuvok orchid.
reserve for yourself, Mr. Suder.
That is an honor you should
You gave this species life.
And you gave me life.
All of this is because of you.
Because of the meld.
The meld may have
introduced you
in floriculture,
to my interest
but you have embraced it
entirely on your own.
And discovered a unique
talent within yourself
in the process.
the only talent I had
I used to think
was a talent for killing.
Please... It's my way
of saying thank you.
Very well.
I accept.
something for the ship.
Tuvok, I want to do
I'm not asking you
to let me out of confinement.
I accept my punishment.
But if I could just...
Just contribute somehow.
What contribution do you
feel you could make
from your quarters?
I was... I was thinking
I might adapt
engineering techniques
some of the genetic
I've developed for the orchids
to make the airponic vegetable
garden more productive.
Your attitude is admirable.
I will discuss it with
the Captain.
Do you think she'll agree?
We'll see.
Now, shall we begin?
Notice your mind working.
How it plans for the future,
visits the past.
Notice those thoughts
and set them aside.
Turn your attention
to the white light
that is your breath.
Captain, we're being hailed
on a subspace frequency.
Are there ships
in the vicinity?
Tracking the source.
Negative.
Seems likes it's coming
from an unmanned buoy.
Coordinates 140 mark 317.
It looks like a Kazon signal,
Captain.
Take us out of warp.
Open a channel.
Chakotay, they're going
to take your son.
SESKA:
When Culluh saw the baby...
I hear them coming.
I don't have much time.
the baby wasn't his...
When he saw
Please, Chakotay, help us--
Not for me, for your son.
I told you to stay out of here.
CULLUH:
No, please don't.
SESKA:
Don't take him!
I beg... No! Please, no!
No!
( dramatic theme playing )
( triumphant theme playing )
my responsibility.
This is not
She has no right
to expect me--
She knows you, Chakotay.
when you saw your son in danger.
She knew how you'd react
I have a duty to this crew.
I can't just leave
and go looking for the child.
And I'd never consider
letting you go
stronghold by yourself.
into a Kazon-Nistrim
we do it together.
If we do this,
That's something else
Seska would know too.
Do you think it's a trap?
Do I think Seska
is capable
you and me with this?
of manipulating
On the other hand,
Oh, yes.
for her to deliver.
it was time
And that baby we saw
did look part Cardassian
and part human.
I'm sure his pride was wounded
And knowing Culluh,
the child wasn't his.
when he realized
It makes sense, Chakotay.
It might all be true.
Still, the safest
thing would be
to ignore this message
and resume our course.
I'm not going to resume
our course just yet.
I want you to think
about it, Chakotay.
This has to be your decision.
If you choose to go after him,
for the entire crew--
I know I speak
Starfleet and Maquis alike--
we'll stand behind you.
When I say
( dramatic theme playing )
( beeps )
Ah-koo-chee-moya.
places of our grandfathers.
We are far from the sacred
We are far from the bones
of my people,
of sorrow and uncertainty
but I ask on this day
of my father find me
that the wisdom
and help me understand
my dilemma.
Speak to me, Father.
Speak to me in my dreams.
so troubled, Chakotay.
I've never seen you
KOLOPAK:
I have a son, Father.
A son, Chakotay?
Oh.
This is the reason
for your despair.
Was he born with two arms
and two legs
and a heart that beats?
Yes, but--
Then it's a cause
for celebration.
You will make a fine father.
You needn't worry.
I'm not sure I'm willing
to be a father to him.
Hmm. Not willing?
without my consent.
He was born
I had no part in it.
No part in it?
Well, it's been a long time,
so forgive me,
but it seems that I
had to play a part
before your mother
could conceive.
My DNA was taken from me.
to impregnate herself
Used by a woman
without my permission.
I see.
You're trying to decide
whether you should
accept the child
in your heart.
It's more than that.
But it must begin with that!
How do you take
a child into your heart
by a mother's deception?
who is forced upon you
He knows nothing
of deception.
He is innocent.
the women of our tribe
Centuries ago, when
white conquerors,
were raped by
to their children.
many gave birth
And we did not reject them.
They were accepted
by the tribe.
One was a direct ancestor
of ours, Chakotay.
His name was Ce Acatl.
He became a great leader
of our people.
who was given life
Here is a man
his mother's consent.
without
Are you so different
from her?
so different from Ce Acatl?
And is your child
No.
He is your son, Chakotay.
And he is a child
of our people.
( dramatic theme playing )
I've been in touch
mining colony on Prema II.
with the Talaxian
They're willing to come
to our assistance
if we run into trouble.
That's good for about 40 hours
if we average warp 2.
After that, we're out
of their com range.
we have friends in the area.
Well, it's nice to know
Thank you, Neelix.
I recommend a full diagnostic
of our tactical array
prior to the start
of the mission, Captain.
from tactical, Lieutenant.
Agreed, but I want more
I want to anticipate
a trap.
our sleeves, if we need them.
And I want a few tricks up
deflector grid to make it look
Captain, I could program the
like we have help
on the way.
I'll show you
what I mean.
Excuse me, doctor.
( beeps )
Echo displacement.
KIM:
Exactly.
This is how we'd look
to the enemy sensors.
decoy images like these,
If we generate multiple
ships are coming toward us.
the Kazon would think that
as many as we want.
We could create
That's a good start, Harry.
It should distract them
for a while.
But what else can we do
if we're eventually intercepted
by a superior force?
If you don't mind,
DOCTOR:
I do have something to add.
( beeps )
Thank you.
Captain, I hesitate
to offer suggestions
in a field of endeavor
that is not
within my usual area
of expertise.
your suggestions
Please, doctor,
are always welcome.
on any subject
you may expect several more
Really? In that case,
on a variety of matters
in the near future.
Right now, may I suggest
that we also consider
an actual holographic illusion
attempting to create
of friendly ships.
With all due respect, doctor,
to project you into this room.
we can't even figure out how
How are we supposed to create
holographic ships in space?
DOCTOR:
I would humbly submit
is far more sophisticated
that my program
than your run-of-the-mill
hologram.
In fact, projecting
the illusion
three-dimensional object
of a large
has been a trick of magicians
for centuries.
We'll just do it
with mirrors.
Mr. Paris' predictable attempts
at humor not withstanding,
DOCTOR:
what I would suggest.
that is precisely
the hull with parabolic mirrors
Installing holo-emitters along
to enlarge the images as they
are reflected into space.
We're gonna use up
a lot of our power reserves
trying to pull it off.
If these ships
CHAKOTAY:
can fool the Kazon,
it's worth it.
But can they? If the Kazon
TUVOK:
they will immediately realize
scan the holograms,
there are no life signs
on board,
no power signatures...
fool them for long,
Okay, so we can't
but maybe it'll be
long enough.
It's an advantage.
And we'll need every advantage
we can get on this mission.
Work on the doctor with it,
B'Elanna.
Mr. Kim, cut power
to all systems
to minimum requirements.
I don't wanna show up
long-range scanners.
on any Kazon
signature from Culluh's ship
Mr. Paris, locate the warp
to follow, warp 2.
and set a course
Aye, Captain.
Dismissed.
CHAKOTAY:
Uh, excuse me,
but there is one more thing.
Thank you.
( dramatic theme playing )
It's not Culluh's ship.
Looks more like a shuttle.
Slow to impulse.
Set an intercept course,
Mr. Paris.
the nature of the distress?
Have they indicated
No response to our hails.
Just a signal, Captain.
Let's go to red alert.
( alarm sounds )
On screen.
Visual range.
KIM:
Showing one life sign.
Adult Kazon male.
He's in critical condition.
Janeway to Sickbay.
an emergency transport.
Prepare to receive
KES: Standing by, Captain.
Commander.
Mr. Tuvok, you have the Bridge.
Remain at red alert.
TUVOK:
Aye, Captain.
His hip is broken.
KES:
Showing severe inflammation
in the bronchial tissue.
It appears he inhaled
noxious gases
the damaged shuttle.
vented in
40 milligrams
pulmozine.
I know this man.
CHAKOTAY:
His name's Tierna.
He's one of Seska's aides.
when I was on their ship.
She had him work me over
Seska...is dead.
( grunting ):
( dramatic theme playing )
could manipulate the maje.
Seska thought that she
TIERNA:
She bragged about it to me
more than once,
but this time she was wrong.
We had just launched the buoy
with the message for you.
Then they came for her.
They cut her throat,
as Culluh watched.
He ordered them to execute me,
but I bribed one of the guards
to get me to a shuttle.
As soon as he saw it leaving,
Culluh opened fire--
Destroyed
my life-support systems.
He left me in space
to die.
What about the child?
Taken to the Gema IV colony
to be raised as a servant.
getting to the Gema system.
We'll be needing your help
You're going after him?
This ship, alone?
I want nothing to do with this.
into Nistrim space.
I'm not taking you
Under the circumstances, I'd say
you don't have much of a choice.
What's his prognosis?
He'll be on his feet
in a day or two,
but there's still
a number of things
we need to keep an eye on.
He's had...a nasty concussion,
spinal cord trauma
and a polycythemia, the cause
of which I've yet to discover.
Polycythemia?
the number of red blood cells.
An abnormal increase in
an autonomic response analysis
I'd like you to run
the next time I question him.
I'm afraid
that won't help you determine
if he's telling the truth,
Commander.
An ARA depends on making
a baseline comparison
with a known response
for a given species.
Any Tom, Dick or Harry
I could probably help you,
from the Alpha Quadrant,
species of the Delta Quadrant.
but not with any of the new
( computer beeping )
Regarding his veracity,
it may help you to know
that if we'd arrived
an hour later,
he would have been dead
from his injuries.
The molecular variance residual
on his shuttle
is evidence of disruptor blasts,
and the signature is Kazon,
his story seems to be true.
so at least that part of
nitrogen tetroxide fumes
Plus, we confirmed
were in the cabin.
If all this was part of
a Kazon scheme,
he had to be willing
to breathe poison
for hours before
we got there.
anything at all
Have you found
doubt on his story?
that would cast
No.
I still don't trust him.
The trip would take six days
at warp 2.
Four days, if you didn't take
NEELIX:
such a circuitous route--
across the Tenarus cluster.
If we simply went
You would encounter
the Nistrim fleet
before a single day
passed.
this part of space
Anyone who knows
the same thing.
will tell you
NEELIX:
It so happens
that I do know
this part of space,
my Kazon friend.
I just wanted to see
if you would tell us the truth.
The route he suggests
is safer, Captain.
TIERNA:
Of course it's safer.
I don't want to run into Culluh
any more than you do.
success avoiding him
We might have more
CHAKOTAY:
the command codes
if you gave us
for the Nistrim
defense net.
TUVOK: Computer, display...
( computer beeping )
...tactical overview
of our current course.
Enter code sequence:
4-9-1-1-7-0-Culluh.
Mr. Paris, adjust our course
to avoid the defense net.
Aye, Captain.
TIERNA:
That is not an end
to the danger.
into an area of space
We are heading
populated
by Kazon factions
that are loyal to no one.
without provocation.
They will attack
( suspenseful theme playing )
Coordinates: 314 mark 21.
Vessel approaching.
Signature is
Kazon.
Red alert.
Configuration of the ship,
Mr. Tuvok?
A small raider,
Captain.
a significant threat.
It does not pose
Nevertheless, it is
its weapon systems.
powering up
( weapon fires in distance )
Shields are holding.
Return fire.
The raider is breaking
off its attack.
Minor damage
KIM:
processors on Deck 12.
to secondary command
EPS power supplies,
and isolinear controllers
are off-line.
No casualties though.
Begin repairs, Mr. Kim.
Any other sign of Kazon ships,
Lieutenant?
long-range sensors.
Nothing on
continuing to retreat.
The raider is
a couple of hours
We should have
to ourselves at least.
Good. We can use them.
Stand down red alert.
we're about to go
Captain,
PARIS:
of the Talaxian colony.
beyond the com range
you'd like to know.
Just thought
Thank you, Lieutenant.
Maintain current course.
Captain.
I haven't forgotten,
Mr. Tuvok.
Very well.
This seems as good
a time as any.
( equipment beeping )
Mr. Suder.
Captain.
Please... P-please come in.
W-won't you sit down?
Excuse the mess.
I wasn't expecting company.
Can I get you some tea?
Have you had lunch?
Nothing, thank you.
telling me about your progress.
Lieutenant Tuvok has been
Has he? Well, I'm...
I'm very grateful to him,
Captain.
I still have a lot to learn,
of course,
but he is an excellent tutor.
When we first started
our studies, I--
The Captain's time
TUVOK:
is limited,
Mr. Suder.
What?
Oh.
Of course.
I have explained
TUVOK:
your proposal to her.
more about it, Mr. Suder.
I'd like to know
would be involved?
What exactly
Yes, yes...
Let me show you.
very encouraging results
I've actually had
gene-splicing technique.
with a new
I created a targeted
restriction enzyme
to facilitate
the hybrid.
you could experiment
And you feel
on our airponic crops
here in your quarters?
Absolutely. I would make this
an airponic laboratory,
and all I would need
are a few plants,
certain chemicals
and equipment.
What sort of chemicals
and equipment?
Nothing dangerous.
I-I've prepared a list.
proposition, Mr. Suder.
It's an interesting
Let me discuss it with Kes
and Lieutenant Tuvok,
and I'll get back to you.
I've already discussed it
with Kes,
and she is very interested.
Good. Let me give it
some thought.
you can't trust me, Captain--
If you're worried
I only want
Mr. Tuvok has assured--
Something for the ship.
to do something--
I understand, Mr. Suder.
Then what's the problem?
Why won't you give me
an answer?
Mr. Suder.
something for the ship.
I just want to do
Excuse me.
( dramatic theme playing )
Captain's log, supplemental.
JANEWAY:
None of the four Kazon attacks
have caused serious damage,
but the starboard ventral
has been hit each time--
secondary command processors.
complicating repairs on the
You are making an adequate
recovery, Mr. Tierna.
The only matter
that I simply cannot understand
is this lingering
polycythemia.
I feel fine.
The medical record
you gave us
any prior blood disorders.
does not indicate
an inherited trait?
Might it be
your parents ever--?
Do you know if
My parents were killed
in a Trabe attack
shortly after I was born.
I see. Well,
this condition for a while.
we'll need to monitor
It might be due to some
chemical imbalance
aren't recognizing.
that our sensors
Possibly the result
of the toxins you inhaled
while on the shuttle.
You're welcome.
Feeling better?
I'm sure I'll make
a complete recovery.
Just in time for the Gema
colony's defense force
to destroy us all.
You're still not optimistic
about our chances, are you?
No.
We've had no problem
repelling the attacks
so far.
Attacks... When there's
a real Nistrim attack,
you'll know it.
the Nistrim, don't you, Tierna?
You still have pride in
what they did to you.
Even after
I remember that pride
in your eyes when you
while I was tied to a chair.
pounded me with your fists
in your eyes now,
And I can see it
the hell out of me.
and that scares
You must scare easily,
Federation.
( grunts )
Tell me something,
Tierna.
Every Kazon attack seems to
focus on our starboard ventral.
Think that might be
some kind of pattern?
Because if it is,
I wouldn't know.
and you've been lying to us--
Commander
Chakotay.
Not in my Sickbay,
please.
( alarm sounding )
( dramatic theme playing )
Firing phasers.
( rumbling )
to one-half impulse.
Increase speed
KIM: They're coming
Aye, Captain.
at our starboard ventral
again.
haven't been repaired yet.
Our shields there
We're gonna sustain
more damage
command processors.
to the secondary
Starboard ventral.
COMPUTER: Warning.
Fires have been detected
Sections A-4 through C-18.
on Decks 12 and 15
are responding, Captain.
Control units
Keep our port forequarter facing
the line of attack, Mr. Paris.
our starboard ventral.
Don't let them see
I'm doing my best.
starboard phasers.
Continuous fire,
Acknowledged.
( rumbling continues )
TUVOK:
They're withdrawing,
Captain.
Stand down red alert.
Mr. Kim?
Deck 12 is in shambles.
We barely have time
to begin repairs
before they attack it again.
no one was hurt.
At least
command processors
The secondary
are nonfunctional.
to rebuild them.
We'll have
I'd say we're looking
at two days' work
attacked again.
if we're not
of Kazon, loyal to no one,
Why would these factions
all have the same agenda?
And why would that agenda
focus on a nonessential
area of the ship?
I don't know,
but it feels like
we're being pecked
to death by ducks.
We can't just stay on this
course and wait to see
what they have in store
for us.
I agree. It's time
to reexamine our game plan.
Mr. Paris, reverse course.
Aye, Captain.
restricted to quarters
Mr. Tierna should be
CHAKOTAY:
on a secured deck
until further notice.
Acknowledged.
( door beeps, opens )
( beeps )
( suspenseful theme playing )
Dinnertime, Mr. Suder.
a fine leola root soup tonight.
We have
I'm not hungry.
( alarm sounds )
Red alert.
I'm afraid we have to go.
I'll leave it here,
ah...
just in case.
( door closes )
How many do you count,
Mr. Tuvok?
Eight large carrier vessels,
confirmed Kazon signatures.
Funny how they show up
right after we reverse course.
Eight minutes.
Time to intercept?
Their attack formation is
a classic Cardassian echelon.
TUVOK:
Curious.
They have left us
with an obvious avenue
of escape, Captain.
You're right.
It is curious.
Too curious for me.
I don't know what's down
that avenue of escape,
Mr. Tuvok, but I like
to choose my own way.
Set a course
to intercept
their lead ship.
Aye, Captain.
Battle stations.
( suspenseful theme playing )
Time to intercept?
Three minutes,
10 seconds...
a photon torpedo.
give or take
Mr. Kim?
( console beeping )
Echo displacement ready,
Captain.
Send in the cavalry.
Activating deflector grid.
They should be seeing the same
thing on their scanners--
with Talaxian signatures.
Ten ships
Four of the Kazon ships
are breaking formation.
They're changing course.
Confirmed.
They took the bait.
That only leaves four
for us to handle.
I like those odds better
than eight to one.
Two minutes to intercept.
Janeway to Torres.
down here, Captain.
We're ready
All the new holo-projectors
are online.
We can create three Talaxian
ships whenever you want to.
In about a minute and a half,
B'Elanna. Stand by.
JANEWAY:
one last systems check.
Perhaps we should try
We've already done it twice.
and we've never put
I'm new at this,
DOCTOR:
the holo-generators before.
such a demand on
We should've boosted
the power input.
to need all the auxiliary power
The defense systems are going
we have, doctor.
We might try a preliminary--
Doctor!
It'll work.
Everything'll be fine.
I'm not worried.
( rumbling )
Here we go.
torpedoes in our flight path.
They are randomly detonating
Shields are holding.
No damage.
Hold your fire, Mr. Tuvok.
They may have torpedoes
to waste-- We don't.
Thirty seconds
to intercept.
Take us out of warp.
PARIS:
Engaging
impulse engines.
to all weapon systems.
Power
TUVOK: Kazon vessel,
Stand by phasers.
10,000 kilometers
off our starboard bow.
6,000 kilometers.
Not yet.
5,000.
3,000...2,000.
Now!
Initiating evasive maneuvers,
beta sequence.
Kazon ships approaching.
Two more
Shields at 90 percent.
( sighs deeply )
( muttering in alien language)
Initiate holo-programs.
Janeway to Torres.
Acknowledged.
Energizing.
That's two.
And here's number three.
( insistent beeping )
Help! Man overboard!
( screaming )
Doctor, are you there?
B'ELANNA:
Are you all right?
we should have run
I told you
one last systems check.
( sighs )
( rumble )
Fourth Kazon ship,
dead ahead.
But they're dividing
their fire, Captain.
The holograms
are working.
Ready photons.
Torpedoes loaded.
Take us about, Mr. Paris.
We want a good angle
on that fourth ship.
Coming about, 141 mark 20.
Fire photon number one.
( suspenseful theme playing )
Full starboard roll.
Evasive maneuvers,
lambda sequence.
Fire.
Shields at 85 percent
and holding.
Minor damage reported,
Deck 14.
Come about
to 143 mark 060.
Coming about.
Ready photons.
Dispersal pattern
sierra. Fire.
( yelling )
I'm reading a massive discharge
on Deck 8.
a primary plasma conduit.
We've lost
Deck 8-- Tierna's quarters.
Damage control teams
to Deck 8.
I'm showing power failures
all over the ship.
to the new holodeck grid.
We've lost power
I can't restore it.
are you all right?
B'Elanna,
But it looks like
Yes, Captain.
our reactant injector controls
were hit. Stand by.
All three Kazon ships
are concentrating
their fire on us now, Captain.
Shields at 70 percent
and falling.
KIM:
scanners are off-line.
Starboard targeting
Evasive maneuvers, Mr. Paris.
Gamma sequence.
I need warp power.
Engineering,
We can't go to warp,
Captain.
The containment field
generator has been damaged.
I'm attempting to bypass.
Captain, if I can get a shuttle
through the crossfire,
the Talaxians to help us.
I can go back and bring
Chakotay, take the conn.
Good luck, Lieutenant.
( suspenseful theme continues )
( rumbling, alarm beeps )
Shuttle is clear.
So far, so good.
Give him as much cover fire
as you can, Tuvok.
Aye, Captain.
( grunts )
( consoles beeping )
Voyager to Paris.
Please respond.
Tom, can you hear me?
I've lost contact
with the shuttle.
( rumbling continues )
Navigational array
is off-line.
to forward phasers.
We've lost power
Shields at 30 percent.
They're buckling.
( yelling )
Report.
The driver coil assembly
has been destroyed.
Impulse engines
are off-line.
TUVOK:
We're being boarded through
the shuttle bays, Captain.
Phaser fights reported
on Decks 5, 6, 7.
Intruder alert.
CHAKOTAY:
Decks 5 through 7.
Security to
Begin evacuation.
Janeway to computer.
( computer beeps )
self-destruct sequence.
Initiate
Janeway-pi-1-1-0.
Authorization:
Set at 10 minutes.
( computer beeps )
self-destruct sequence
Unable to initiate
COMPUTER:
secondary command processors.
due to damage to
MALE:
Stay where you are.
Don't move!
( grunts )
Hold your fire.
Get down there!
You! Move!
( ominous theme playing )
I want to speak to
Maje Culluh.
CULLUH:
Easily arranged, Captain.
Hello, everyone.
of your son, Chakotay?
What do you think
He has your eyes.
Don't you think?
he doesn't look too human.
Thank goodness
such weak foreheads.
You all have
May he grow up never knowing
the contempt his father has
for his mother.
I think I can assure you
of that, Commander.
I intend to take him
for my own son.
A man who would
violate a woman
under his own command--
What?
Doesn't deserve a son.
Is that what she told you?
The boy will be trained
as a Nistrim askara.
Already he has helped us win the
greatest battle in our history.
JANEWAY:
Culluh.
I'd like to discuss
what happens now.
( grunts )
You'll be given no more respect
than any Kazon woman...
and technology are mine.
now that your ship
I will tell you
when you may speak.
Allow my crew to live.
They were following
my orders.
You're even worse than she is.
What is it about the women
from your Quadrant?
in front of the senior askara?
You know she contradicts me
her maje in front of others.
My own woman, disputing
This is your fault.
You've let your women
get out of control.
my deepest respect, Maje.
You know you have
Why is it so dark in here?
Somebody turn on the lights.
to begin work immediately.
Order the repair crews
for the Hanon system
I want to leave
as soon as possible.
What's in the Hanon system?
Your new home.
Take them to a cargo bay.
Have the whole crew
brought there.
Check all quarters.
( snaps fingers )
( suspenseful theme playing )
Move.
( grunts )
Good-bye, Chakotay.
I'll take good care
of our son.
( baby crying )
Oh, are you hungry,
my brave little boy?
( Kazon indistinctly
yelling commands )
You! Move!
Keep moving!
NEELIX: This is outrageous!
KAZON MALE: Shut up!
Get up! Move!
Get out!
medical holographic recall.
Computer, activate
Set for 12 hours.
Mark.
( computer beeps )
Check every room.
In here.
Get back.
( grunting )
( people grunting )
Keep moving!
KAZON MALE:
( suspenseful theme continues )
are complete, Maje.
Essential repairs
We have accounted for
all but two
of the Federation crew.
a shuttle missing.
There is also
Yes, we destroyed the shuttle
as it was leaving.
Has that been confirmed?
Fine.
send out search parties.
Have the other ships
Confirm the shuttle
was destroyed.
And even if they
find wreckage
from the shuttle,
that seems to be
for a recent warp trail.
tell them to check
( suspenseful theme playing )
atmospheric thrusters.
Stand by to engage
Prepare for landing.
Activate the viewscreen.
Extend landing struts.
( rumbling )
Ready environmental controls!
( rumble )
Disengage engines.
Secure thruster exhaust.
( laughing )
Badges.
Over here.
A fitting end for a people
who would not share
their technology.
Let's see if you manage
to survive...
without it.
( suspenseful theme playing )
All right.
Let's go.
We've got to find
water and shelter.
the crew into teams.
We'll divide
will be a team leader.
Each of you
to all your people
Make it clear
that we expect
to be rescued
is to survive
and our job
until help arrives.
Do you really think
it's likely
that someone will
find us, Captain?
You're the morale
officer, Neelix.
You give me an answer.
Help is on the way!
Maybe Tom's shuttle
got through.
It's very important
that this crew
a sense of hope.
be given
That's our most important
job right now.
is drinking water.
Our top priority
to spend the night.
Second is shelter
with a protected side
CHAKOTAY:
A clearing
a cliff would be best.
like the base of
the basic survival requirements.
Food, fuel-- Look for all
That includes anything that can
be used as a tool or a weapon.
We'll reconvene here
in about two hours.
start dividing the crew.
All right,
Looks like we don't have
much daylight left.
We'll spread the teams out
alpha search pattern
in a standard
to see what we have
to work with.
Chakotay, Torres,
you're with me.
Alpha team here.
Beta team, this way.
Gamma team.
KIM:
Delta team with me.
( rumble )
The planet seems to be
seismically active.
it's an M-Class planet
At first glance,
in a Pliocene stage
of evolution.
several million years ago.
Comparable to Earth
( engines powering up )
( suspenseful theme playing )
( rumbling growl )
Captain.
( engines roaring )
( suspenseful theme continues )
( triumphant theme playing )